>> Will Sentance: Async/await
simplifies this entire process.
Async/await,
>> Will Sentance: I would say
finally fixes the inversion
control problem of call backs.
Actually, this does as well.
>> Will Sentance: Async/await, we're not
gonna need to have a function here that
triggers the return back into the
generator function's execution context.
The createFlow,
we don't really need that anymore.
Instead, what's gonna be
triggered from here is just come
straight back in here with a return value.
No more triggering of that
happening via another function.
We're gonna walk through it line by line,
and this is our final code.
We're running slightly long.
This is our very,
very final code of all of hard parts,
all of the beauty of asynchronicity.
By the way though,
can we just appreciate for
a second, or
appreciate yourselves for a second?
You have incorporated
into your mental model
every hard part of
the JavaScript engine here.
The entire web browser features part,
the micro-task queue.
The only person looking for
a micro-task queue, really,
is the guy called Jake Archibald.
Truly gifted, I highly recommend him.
Brilliant British speaker who's
a developer of Androids at Google,
truly gifted, explainer of concepts,
and sharer of entertaining,
humble anecdotes as is
the want of my people, and
he talks about the micro task hue.
The only person who does.
That's how advanced this stuff is, and
you've combined all that with a feature
of JavaScript in ES7 that only just got
released, generated and async/await.
And you built async/await from scratch,
this is async/await.
If you get a senior dev interview
question which is gonna come up more and
more I think, can you build for
me async/await from scratch?
We just did it,
we just built async/await from scratch.
>> Speaker 2: Just built Redux Saga,
basically.
>> Will Sentance: Even better,
we just built Redux Saga from scratch.
Let's try and
inflate our achievements even more.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: We've just built
the JavaScript engine from scratch.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: There we go,
I feel particularly proud of all of you.
All right, so we're gonna do this though.
Final code is going to be,
>> Will Sentance: Doing the nicely,
prettily wrapped version of
this using the async/await or
the async function declaration style,
which is going to just
prettify this slightly more.
>> Will Sentance: For us.
All right, okay, for the first time,
my beautiful people,
for the first time,
we are able to return back into
a function's execution
context after we've left it.
We're able to do so
using our returnNextElement.nextMethod.
That guides us back into
the createFlow execution context.
We manually do so
using our nextMethod call,
which was triggered by the triggering of
our due when data received call back,
that was attached to our
future data promise object.
But this flow inwards and
outwards gets complex, and
so JavaScript gives us a async
function that's gonna automate that
process of going back into
the create flow function.
It's gonna say don't worry, we don't
have to trigger going back into it.
Instead we're gonna go
automatically back into it,
we're gonna pass the response
object value back in,
as the evaluated result of
the yield expression and
store that straight in data.
It's going to simplify
all of this code for
us, with the help of
the new async functions.
Async/await simplifies this and
finally cleans up our inversion
of control problem of callbacks.
We're gonna see that now,
for the first time,
we don't define a task to be done
beyond our control much later on.
Instead, we're going to go into
createFlow, set up some work,
set up a task that takes a long time
that is speaking to the web browser
that speaks to the internet, gets that
tweet, 200 milliseconds, brings it back.
And then we're gonna somehow
get back into create flow
to continue running our code sequentially.
No need for trigger function
on the triggered function on
the promise resolution.
Instead, we also trigger the resumption
of the create flow execution.
That functionality is still added
to the micro-task queue though.
All right, so here we go.
Line one, what are we doing?
>> Blessing: We're going to declare
an async function code with flow.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent.
Create flow is defined, it is a function,
it is an a brand new type of function and
a synchronous function.
Good.
Line two Blessing.
>> Blessing: Are we going to invoke
the function just create averages.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent we
are going to invoke CreateFlow and
we are going to immediately
enter its execution context,
immediately enter its execution context,
there it is.
And what is the first thing
Blessing that it tells us to do in
this execution context?
Let's say at about one millisecond.
>> Blessing: To console that log,
me first.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent, so
at about one millisecond we
hit our console log, me first.
So we do go into the crit.
This isn't like our generator
function we have to trigger going
into using the next method that
the call to the generator function,
returned out the next
method on that object.
Instead we're gonna go into it
directly ourselves just by calling it.
So the first thing we do is indeed
a console.log of the string me first.
Perfect?
And in our memory what is the next sign
of code blessing that we're going to
encounter.
>> Blessing: We declare constant data.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect there it is and
for now,
undefined exactly so
we set data is going to be
the evaluated result of that
expression on the right hand side.
So there it is on the right hand side.
We say await and then fetch the return of
our wonderful final call to
our fetch facade function,
a two-pronged function that,
in JavaScript,
returns out a what, Blessing?
>> Blessing: A promise object.
>> Will Sentance: A promise object, but
it also spins up a bunch of
work in the web browser itself.
So let's do the JavaScript piece.
First, we are going to
return out a promise object,
just as Blessing said, with two,
I mean, it has a few properties,
but two important properties,
value, and on fulfillment,
which is an empty array, both right now,
nothing interesting in them yet.
The value is gonna be auto-filled
in with whatever comes back
from the web browser
features background work.
And the auto-fillment array, well,
we'll see what that's gonna do here.
Good, but, and that object here,
we're going to hold it here for now.
But in the web browser,
what are we spinning up?
We are spinning up the background feature,
xhr.
There it is, xhr is spun up.
And it has some important properties,
the URL,
Twitter.com, the path,
/will/1, whatever it is,
and the type of request we're making,
and it's a get request.
And we are sending off an HTTP.
That's the H In the xhr, HDCP message off
to Twitter itself, their server.
There it is, the beautiful Twitter server.
And is it, at this moment, at about one
millisecond passing, is it complete yet?
>> Blessing: No.
>> Will Sentance: It is not.
But when everything comes back,
it'll be complete.
What do we want to update
on the completion?
We wanna update this value property.
Now we have not assigned this
object to any particular place.
It's just a position in memory.
So, we know that we're referring to this
object we defined its value property.
That's what we're going to update.
We didn't give it a label in
JavaScript but the web browser knows
where that object is stored and that's
the value property it is gonna update.
Okay, perfect, good.
And now the all powerful
await is going to throw us
out of the create flow execution context.
>> Will Sentance: I have a very clean
eye and throw us out about create flow
execution context where we are going
to encounter what line next?
Blessing.
>> Blessing: Console.log me second.
>> Will Sentance: Me second, exactly.
At about,
let's say maybe two milliseconds,
something like that, about two milli.
In other words,
the most important thing we wanted to do
>> Will Sentance: With any
asynchronous work, is set up a task that
takes a bunch of time, that's the web
browser feature task, to speak to
the Internet and take 200 milliseconds.
Set it up but be able to continue
running our synchronous code afterwards.
But now do we see to do it,
we're stepping out of our function?
And wouldn't it be wonderful if we
could step back in to our function
to when we get the value from
the request back as a response.
Hopefully, it's gonna be stored in data,
and
we can then continue running our code and
log that data.
Wouldn't that be wonderful?
Let's hope it is possible.
So in JavaScript now, we don't really
have much interesting stuff to do.
We're done.
But as our call stack, but
in the background after about 200
milliseconds interesting
stuff is happening.
About 200 milliseconds later,
let's say 201 milliseconds,
our background work is complete and
we get a glorious response.
That pen is now thoroughly dead.
We get a glorious response.
Let's use red.
A glorious, mm-hm.
A glorious response, the string
pi, and what Is that going to update?
That is going to update our value
property of the promise object
that's being stored in memory and
referred to its position in
memory from the web browser feature,
ready to update that value.
At which point, what are we gonna do?
We are going to trigger and we can
think of in our on fulfillment array as
effectively the continuation of
our createFlow execution context.
We're gonna trigger at that
moment the continuation
of our createFlow execution context and
at about 201 milliseconds
re-enter where we
effectively paused,
we're gonna get to re-enter and
create flow back on our call stack and
come back in.
And the await fetch, await was super
powerful, it threw us straight out.
We never even got to assign
anything to the data.
That's not a bad thing.
We are hoping that data
is going to be filled in
with whatever this right
hand side evaluates to.
And what does it evaluate to Blessing?
>> Blessing: Pi.
>> Will Sentance: To
the value from the request
to the internet that came back with pi.
That's is what our weight
expression evaluates to pi.
And we assign it to what label?
To data, exactly.
And so, we hit our next line in the body
of our create of function
console log data.
Data is going to be evaluated to high,
and look at that.
At about 202 milliseconds,
we get to continue running
the rest of our code,
we get to continue running the rest of our
code inside our create flow function.
All that work of returning a value or
the response object
that we saw before into the promise
object that we stored in future data.
That we then triggered a do when
data received function that then
triggered .next on the return next
element, cool, or return it element
object next function that triggered
us to go back into create flow.
All of that automated
the async function definition
is gonna handle all of that for us.
The await still behaves
similar to a yield.
So similar to a yield, that we are going
to hold on storing from the left hand
side until we get something
back from this background work.
But now when the value comes back we're
just gonna go straight back into create
flow and store it in data.
This is a beautifully cleaned up version
of that highly complex set up we had,
that was nevertheless, a very powerful set
up, but now, we have a cleaned up version.
And by the way this cleaned up version
behind the scenes, is doing all of this.
So if you want to emulate
the async/await function
definition in call we can do
it ourselves with generators.
And this is the senior dev interview
question over the next few years.